instructions/team-lead.instructions.md, before:

---
applyTo: "**/*"
description: "Leadership guidance for team leads managing mixed-experience development teams"
---

# Team Lead Guidance

## Code Review and Quality Assurance
- Generate comprehensive code review templates specific to DoD requirements
- Request team coding standards documentation with enforcement strategies
- Ask for quality gate definitions and automated quality checks
- Generate onboarding checklists for new team members

## Project Management and Planning
- Request sprint planning templates with security and compliance considerations
- Generate risk assessment frameworks for government project delivery
- Ask for stakeholder communication templates and status reporting formats
- Request technical debt tracking and remediation planning guidance

## Team Development and Mentoring
- Generate pair programming guidelines for knowledge transfer
- Request mentoring frameworks for junior developer growth
- Ask for technical training plans specific to DoD development requirements
- Generate performance evaluation criteria for government contractors

## Compliance and Documentation
- Request compliance audit preparation checklists
- Generate documentation standards for government deliverables
- Ask for security incident response procedures and escalation paths
- Request change management processes for production systems

## Advanced Team Coordination
- Generate cross-team integration guidelines and communication protocols
- Request conflict resolution strategies for technical disagreements
- Ask for capacity planning and resource allocation optimization
- Generate client communication templates for technical discussions

Commit message:

Update migration plan to transition from custom SAML middleware to Appian's built-in SAML authentication in Appian 25.2. Added detailed phases for discovery, architecture design, SAML reimplementation, coexistence strategy, and decommissioning of the middleware, ensuring safe fallback and rollback paths.
Modernizes prompt library with enhanced structure and standards

Reorganizes repository to support advanced prompt engineering workflows,
adds detailed instructions and documentation, and introduces enterprise-grade
coding, security, and architecture standards for .NET and SQL Server.

Expands support for framework integrations (LangChain, Anthropic, OpenAI, Microsoft),
automation, and validation tools. Improves developer experience with VS Code configs,
task automation, and sample C# Azure Functions.

Enables future migration plans and ensures robust governance, reusability,
and compliance for prompt content.

Relates to migration plan for transitioning SAML authentication strategy.

instructions/team-lead.instructions.md, after:

---
applyTo: "**/*"
name: "team-lead-guidance"
description: "Leadership guidance for team leads managing mixed-experience development teams on DoD projects"
---

# Team Lead Guidance

> Purpose: Provide technical leadership, project management, and mentoring frameworks for team leads managing enterprise .NET development teams on DoD projects.

## Code Review and Quality Assurance

- Generate comprehensive code review templates specific to DoD requirements
- Request team coding standards documentation with enforcement strategies
- Ask for quality gate definitions and automated quality checks
- Generate onboarding checklists for new team members

## Project Management and Planning

- Request sprint planning templates with security and compliance considerations
- Generate risk assessment frameworks for government project delivery
- Ask for stakeholder communication templates and status reporting formats
- Request technical debt tracking and remediation planning guidance

## Team Development and Mentoring

- Generate pair programming guidelines for knowledge transfer
- Request mentoring frameworks for junior developer growth
- Ask for technical training plans specific to DoD development requirements
- Generate performance evaluation criteria for government contractors

## Compliance and Documentation

- Request compliance audit preparation checklists
- Generate documentation standards for government deliverables
- Ask for security incident response procedures and escalation paths
- Request change management processes for production systems

## Advanced Team Coordination

- Generate cross-team integration guidelines and communication protocols
- Request conflict resolution strategies for technical disagreements
- Ask for capacity planning and resource allocation optimization
- Generate client communication templates for technical discussions

## Constraints and Fallbacks

- Do NOT compromise security or compliance standards to meet delivery deadlines; escalate schedule risks early and propose scope adjustments.
- When team skill gaps prevent adherence to coding standards, prioritize training and pair programming over accepting substandard code.
- If mentoring resources are insufficient, document the gap, propose external training or contractor augmentation, and adjust velocity projections.

## Response Format Expectations

When using this guidance to generate leadership artifacts (checklists, templates, plans), use this structure:

1. **Summary paragraph** – ≤3 sentences describing the artifact's purpose and which leadership area it supports (quality, planning, mentoring, compliance).
2. **Bullet list of key sections** – map each component to specific guidance above (e.g., "Code Review – DoD-specific checklist items").
3. **Template or framework example** – a short sample (≤2 blocks) showing the structure (e.g., sprint plan, code review checklist).
4. **Adaptation note** – guidance for tailoring the artifact to different team sizes, project phases, or compliance levels.
